In this lesson, we're going to look at the
use of high order functions in Python.
And we're gonna look at 3 in particular.
Map, Filter, and Reduce.
Those are 3 of the more popular high order
functions found in many other languages as
well as Python.
So, lets get started.
We're gonna call this program
highorder.py.
So, we'll start with the review and we'll
review the
map function, which we looked at in the
previous lesson.
So, the first thing we are gonna do is
define a
function square and it squares a number as
you can tell.
Then, we'll create a list of numbers.
We'll just do 3 to keep it short.
And then we're going to say, numbers
squared is equal to list, then map, then
our function name, followed by the
sequence of
data we want to apply the function to.
So, remember what map does.
Map takes a function and applies it to all
of the elements of a given sequence.
So, we'll have the numbers printed here
and then we will print the square.
So
lets save that.
Go back to our command prompt and run it.
And so 1,2,3 becomes 1,4,9 in a new list
of course.
So that's how Map works.
Let's look at a second higher order
function called Filter.
Filter will take a function, quite often a
boolean function or
predicate, and then return only those
elements of the sequence that meet.
That criteria.
So to give you an example of how
that works, we're gonna create a function
called even.
Which takes a number, and looks to see if
the number's even.
And the way we do that, is we take the
number modulo
2, and if that remainder's equal to 0,
then the number is even.
Otherwise.
The number is odd, to see filter, we'll
first create a range of
numbers; this time we will create a list
in the range 1 to 10 and then we'll say,
evens equal list filter even numbers.
So again, the way filter works is filter
applies the given function to
the sequence and returns those elements of
the sequence that match, or that are true
when passed to the function.
So what we should get when we display
evens.
Or just the even numbers in the range from
1 to 10.
Alright, so let's save that program, bring
up our command prompt.
Clear the screen.
So our range started out one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten.
And then, after applying.
Even to a filter, it returns 2,4, 6, 8 and
10.
Only the even numbers.
So that's how filter works.
Our third example, is a function called
reduce.
What we're gonna do with reduce is we're
gonna use it
to create an easy way to sum the sequence
of numbers.
So, the first thing we're going to do is
create a sum function.
Then, we'll create a range of numbers
again, this time 1 through 10.
And then we're going to call the reduced
function.
It's a little bit different.
We have to call a special library.
Functools with our function and our
sequence, and so to
make that work we're going to have to
import the library.
So first thing we need to do is import
functools,
which stands for functional tools and
reduces found in this library.
So then we're going to create a list of
numbers from one to ten.
Then we call reduce from the library with
our sum
function and our sequence and it's going
to access the sequence
one by one, taking each value and adding
it to the
next value, using our sum function and
we'll display the result.
Let's display the range also.
Save our program.
Let's clear the screen.
Theres our range, one through ten and the
sum of 1 to 10, or the range is 55.
And that's correct.
So here you've seen examples of three
higher order functions; map, filter and
reduce.
One of the nice things about these
functions is that it gives the ability
to do some fairly complex programming in a
very small number of lines of code.
The advantage to that of course is that
you
increase your productivity, and you reduce
your chances of errors.
So with that we're finished with this
chapter,
at least the lessons on part 2 of
functions.
And what we're ready to do now, is move on
to the exercises
where we're going to work with recursive
functions, anonymous functions, and higher
order functions.
And we will start in the first exercise
looking at recursive functions.